Integrate with Amazon AppFlow (#11378)
pingcap/docs: develop/dev-guide-aws-appflow-instgration.md

---
title: Integrate TiDB with AWS AppFlow
summary: Introduce how to integrate TiDB with AWS AppFlow step by step.
---

# Integrate TiDB with AWS AppFlow

This document describes how to integrate **TiDB Serverless Tier**  with **AWS AppFlow**.

## Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [JDK](https://openjdk.org/install/) (version `11` and above)
- [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/install.html) (version `3.8` and above)
- [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/zh_cn/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html) (version `2.x`)
- [SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/install-sam-cli.html) (version `1.58.0` and above)
- An AWS [IAM users](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users.html)

>     - User credentials have [access keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) way

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The user can access AWS using an [access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html).
```

    - Permissions

        - AWSCertificateManagerFullAccess: For writing and reading the[AWS Secrets Manager](https://aws.amazon.com/secrets-manager/).
        - AWSCloudFormationFullAccess: `SAM CLI` using[AWS CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/) to proclaim the AWS resources.
        - AmazonS3FullAccess: `AWS CloudFormation` uses[AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/?nc2=h_ql_prod_fs_s3) to publish. So we need to grant `AWS S3` permissions too.
        - AWSLambda_FullAccess: Currently,[AWS Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/?nc2=h_ql_prod_fs_lbd) is the only way to implement a new connector for[AWS AppFlow](https://aws.amazon.com/appflow/).
        - IAMFullAccess: `SAM CLI` needs to create a `ConnectorFunctionRole` to this connector.

    - Permissions Preview:

        ![aws auth](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-auth.png)

> 

Author: But I think this is a perspective to see the AWS Console UI. It can let user can double check what's going on.

> **Note:**
>
> - `--guided` option will ask you some questions at the terminal. The answer will be stored in a file. The default name is `samconfig.toml`.
> - `stack_name` refers to the name of `AWS Lambda`. You can type what you want to call this service.
> - If you want to use `AWS S3` as the source or destination, you need to set the `region` of `AWS Lambda` as the same as `AWS S3`.
> - If you already run the `sam deploy --guided`. Next time, you can just run `sam deploy` instead, `SAM CLI` will use the config file `samconfig.toml` to simplify the interaction.

If you can see the output log below. You successfully deployed this Lambda.

```
Successfully created/updated stack - <stack_name> in <region>
```

![sam output](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-sam-putput.png)

And you can see the [Lambda Dashboard](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home). It will appear you uploaded Lambda just now (Don't forget to select the correct region).

![lambda dashboard](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-lambda-dashboard.png)

### Using Lambda to Register a Connector

> **Note:**
> 
> From here, we can just use the [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com). It's super handy.

> Open your [AWS AppFlow Connectors](https://console.aws.amazon.com/appflow/home#/gallery) website, and click the "**Register new connector**" button.

Author: Got it.

![register connector](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-register-connector.png)

You need to choose the Lambda you uploaded. And give your connector an epic name ("**Connector label**" just refers to the name of connector).

![register connector dialog](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-register-connector-dialog.png)

Click "**Register**". Then you register a TiDB connector successfully.

## Using the TiDB Connector to Create a Flow

Open your [AWS AppFlow Flows](https://console.aws.amazon.com/appflow/home#/list) website, and click the "**Create flow**" button.

![create flow](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-create-flow.png)

### Set the Name of Flow

In step 1, you need to name this flow, and click the "**Next**" button.

![name flow](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-name-flow.png)

### Set the Source and Destination tables

In step 2, you need to choose the **Source Details** and **Destination details**. TiDB Connector can be used in both of them.

- Let’s select Salesforce as the data source.

    ![salesforce source](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-salesforce-source.png)

> 

Author: IMO, pictures can lead users step-by-step to follow our guide.

- If you register to Salesforce, they will add some example data in your platform. We can use the "**Account**" objects.

    ![salesforce data](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-salesforce-data.png)

- Give this connection a name and click the "**Continue**" button.

    ![connect to salesforce](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-connect-to-salesforce.png)

- And then, you need to click the "**Allow**" button, to confirm that AWS reads your Salesforce data.

    ![allow salesforce](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-allow-salesforce.png)

> 

Author: ditto

> **Note:**
>
> If your company already used the Professional Edition of Salesforce, the REST API is not enabled for defaultly. You might need to register a new Developer Edition to use the REST API. You can get more information at this [Salesforce Forum Topic](https://developer.salesforce.com/forums/?id=906F0000000D9Y2IAK).

- Choose the TiDB Connector at Destination details. A button will appear, named "**Connect**".

    ![tidb dest](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-tidb-dest.png)

> **Note:**
>
> If you don't have a TiDB Cluster, get a [Serverless Tier](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) here. It's free. And just need 3 minutes to create. We used AWS to provide TiDB Cloud Serverless Tier. You can choose the same region as Lambda to speed up the connections.

> - Before connecting, you need to create a table at TiDB. Let’s run a SQL at TiDB Serverless Tier (This table schema from the sample data in [Tutorial of AWS AppFlow](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/appflow/latest/userguide/flow-tutorial-set-up-source.html)).

Author: same as

- We select "**Stop the current flow run**" when errors occur. And the "**Run on demand**" trigger type, means you need to click a button to run it.

    ![complete step1](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-complete-step1.png)

### Set the Mapping Rules

In step 3, you need to map the fields.

- We just created the sf_account table. So, it’s empty.

    ```sql
    test> select * from sf_account;
    +----+------+------+---------------+--------+----------+
    | id | name | type | billing_state | rating | industry |
    +----+------+------+---------------+--------+----------+
    +----+------+------+---------------+--------+----------+
    ```

- We need to build a bunch of mapping rules. You can select a source field name option on the left, and select a destination field name on the right. Then, click the "**Map fields**" button. In that way, you can get a mapping rule.

    ![add mapping rule](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-add-mapping-rule.png)

- We need add these rules:

    - Account ID -> id
    - Account Name -> name
    - Account Type -> type
    - Billing State/Province -> billing_state
    - Account Rating -> rating
    - Industry -> industry

>     ![mapping a rule](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-mapping-a-rule.png)

Author: ditto

    ![show all mapping rules](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-show-all-mapping-rules.png)

### (Optional) Set Filters

In step 4, we don't need any filter. But if you want, you can add some filters here.

![filters](/media/develop/aws-appflow-step-filters.png)

> ### Review and Create the Flow

Author: But the Amazon AppFlow uses the `Review` word here.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26212551/203753991-3ab0cb05-6f5a-4ef4-a5a0-dc5c73ffcdb0.png)
